My name is Dominic Hachey.
I'm the academic support teacher
for literacy here at Dr.
Losier Middle School.
I'm also the literacy speaker.
So part of that role for me means that I'm
in charge of the data and accountability
for the literacy department here.
So what that looks like
is all of our units that we
we pre and post
test on gets housed on spreadsheets
throughout, throughout the year.
All of those spreadsheets
are readily available
to all of our teachers on a team's page,
where it's where it's housed.
And basically what that allows us to do
is when we pre
and post test our kids,
we get a picture of where they're at.
So we use red green and yellow
red, meaning they didn't get it,
green meaning they got it yellow meaning
they're on their way to getting it.
So what that looks like in our PLC
is when we have all of our data,
I can go to our PLC
as, as our SPR and say,
put it up on the big screen and say,
you know, this is what's working,
this what isn't working,
this is what's kind of working.
What that allows us to do is allocate
our resources based on our needs
for each class and each unit.
So if we see that there's a C,
a red in one column, obviously
that means that we're going to need
some some support in that in that area.
So we will allocate our resource teachers
myself as an AST
depending on the situation,
and make sure that those gaps get filled.
It could also mean
it shows us what we're doing.
Right.
So if we have, a C of green,
that means, okay, our units are working.
Let's move on to the next thing.
Oftentimes
what happens is we get a lot of yellow.
We get a lot of kids
who are pretty much there, but
they might need an extra
little boost for me as a AST.
What that means is that I'm either
going to take those kids out, or I'm
going to sit with them in the classroom
and kind of reevaluate what we did right,
what they missed,
and then I will try to fill that gap.
As for that, yeah, hopefully by next year,
what we're trying to do is put together
physical copies of all of our data
that gets housed in teams
so that that can move on
to the next school that they graduate to.
So in our case, we get them from grades
six, seven and eight.
We're going to take all our pretest,
other post tests,
all their demand writing,
all of their oral fluency, assessments.
Everything that we get from them
is going to be housed in the binder
or to make copies of those
for the time they get to grade nine,
we can hand them all of their data.
And that basically passes on the picture
to what what they're able to do
and what they what they can't do.
Yeah.
If you're starting to collect
data, start slow.
Start with just just a pre
and a post test on a, on a unit
that you think that
is going to make some impact.
So we pre and post test
a lot of things here.
We you know, pretty much every month
we have
something that we're introducing
or trying to tighten up.
But I would say just start with one unit.
We like our first one that we did
was on capitalization.
So we, we came up with the test
for capitalization.
We pre tested them,
marked it a month later
after we taught the unit,
the post, tested them, we compared them.
And then we got to see kind of
what the effect was of our teaching.
Yeah. But I would definitely start slow.
I would definitely, just
and as you go on now,
like our capitalization unit is
the is the oldest one that we have.
We've refined it 5 or 6 times since then
because we, we've we've seen
what the dad has told us about it,
what they didn't get, what they did get.
So as you keep going,
you're going to stockpile
units, you're going to stockpile, data.
And that's always just going to inform
how you're going to change things
or how you're going to keep things.
Yeah.